---
title: Launch Team
---


## Douglas McCauley

{{< figure src="../img/people/doug_mccauley.jpg"  width="200" >}}

Douglas McCauley is an Associate Adjunct Professor in the Department of
[Environmental Science, Policy and
Management](http://ourenvironment.berkeley.edu/) at [UC
Berkeley](http://www.berkeley.edu/) and an Associate Professor in the
[Department of Ecology, Evolution and Marine
Biology](https://www.eemb.ucsb.edu/) at [UC Santa
Barbara](https://www.ucsb.edu/). Doug is an ecologist and
conservation biologist that uses a diverse suite of methods to better
understand how nature works and to create new applied research tools to
better manage and conserve biodiversity. His research often involves
leveraging the power of new technologies and insight from data science
to address complex environmental problems and bring together the diverse
stakeholders needed to effectively implement these solutions. Doug leads
the [Benioff Ocean Initiative](https://boi.ucsb.edu/) at
UC Santa Barbara. He was named a Sloan Research Fellow in the Ocean
Sciences and he serves on the [World Economic Forum's Friends of Ocean
Action](https://www.weforum.org/friends-of-ocean-action)
leadership team.


## Fernando Pérez

{{< figure src="../img/people/fernando_perez.jpg"  width="200" >}}

Fernando Pérez (@fperez_org) is an Associate Professor in Statistics at UC Berkeley and scientist at LBNL. He builds open source tools for humans to use computers as companions in thinking and collaboration, mostly in the scientific Python ecosystem (IPython, Jupyter & friends). A computational physicist by training, his research interests include questions at the nexus of software and geoscience, seeking to build the computational and data ecosystem to tackle problems like climate change with collaborative, open, reproducible, and extensible scientific practices. He is a co-founder of Project Jupyter, the 2i2c.org initiative, the Berkeley Institute for Data Science and the NumFOCUS Foundation. He is a recipient of the 2017 ACM Software System Award and the 2012 FSF Award for the Advancement of Free Software.

## 

## Justin Brashares

{{< figure src="../img/people/justin_brashares.jpg"  width="200" >}}

Justin Brashares is the G.R. & W.M. Goertz Professor in UC Berkeley\'s
Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management. Justin's
research combines approaches from ecology with interdisciplinary
environmental science to better understand how human activities are
impacting biodiversity, and to highlight and communicate the everyday
consequences of these changes for society. Work in Justin\'s group
extends traditional environmental science to consider the economic,
political and cultural factors that drive and, in turn, are driven by
global change. Through these efforts, Justin and his group at Berkeley
strive to propose empirically-based, action-oriented strategies for the
conservation of ecosystems and the services they provide us.

## Carl Boettiger

{{< figure src="../img/people/carl_boettiger.png"  width="200" >}}

Carl Boettiger is an Assistant Professor in the Department of
[Environmental Science, Policy and
Management](http://ourenvironment.berkeley.edu/) at [UC
Berkeley](http://www.berkeley.edu/). Carl works on problems in
ecological forecasting and decision making under uncertainty, with
applications for global change, conservation and natural resource
management. Carl is particularly interested in how we can predict or
manage ecological systems that may experience regime shifts: sudden and
dramatic changes that challenge both our models and available data. The
rapid expansion in both computational power and the available ecological
and environmental data enables and requires new mathematical,
statistical and computational approaches to these questions. Ecology has
much to learn about what are and are not useful from advances in
informatics & computer science, just as it has from statistics and
mathematics. Traditional approaches to ecological modeling and resource
management such as stochastic dynamic systems, Bayesian inference, and
optimal control theory must be adapted both to take advantage of all
available data while also dealing with its imperfections. Carl's
approach blends ecological theory with the synthesis of heterogeneous
data and the development of software -- a combination now recognized as
data science.

Carl is a co-founder of the [rOpenSci
project](https://ropensci.org/), a senior fellow at
[BIDS](http://bids.berkeley.edu/), and a science adviser
to [NCEAS](http://nceas.ucsb.edu/), reflecting his
interests in open science, data science, and ecoinformatics.

## Stacey Dorton

Administrative Manager

{{< figure src="../img/people/stacey_dorton.png"  width="200" >}}

Stacey Dorton is the Administrative Manager for DS4E, serving as our
Office Jedi. She is an administrative professional with 25 years'
experience in office management. She has done administrative work for a
wide variety of organizations, including an elementary school,
psychiatric facility, waste management firm, and a catering company. She
also has extensive experience in the event management and social media
fields.

She is a native of the Oakland/Berkeley area and a graduate of UC
Berkeley (class of '95) majoring in women's studies. GO BEARS!

## Paolo D'Odorico

{{< figure src="../img/people/paolo_dodorico.jpg"  width="200" >}}

Paolo D'Odorico is a Professor in the Department of [Environmental
Science, Policy and Management](http://ourenvironment.berkeley.edu/) at
[UC Berkeley](http://www.berkeley.edu/). His research focuses on the
role of hydrological processes in the functioning of terrestrial
ecosystems. Through the analysis of the soil water balance he has
highlighted important nonlinearities in the coupling between soil
moisture dynamics and plant water stress, biogeochemical cycling,
land-atmosphere interactions, plant community composition, and soil
susceptibility to wind erosion. Using field observations and
process-based models, Paolo is investigating new mechanisms of
desertification and factors contributing to the resilience of the desert
margins. His group\'s work has highlighted the role played by positive
feedbacks with the physical environment on the resilience of savannas,
dry tropical forests, desert shurblands, freshwater wetlands, mangrove
swamps, and seagrass meadows. His work has also shown how environmental
noise may increase the complexity of ecosystem dynamics by inducing new
states, bifurcations, or pattern formation. Paolo is currently
investigating the globalization of water through virtual water trade and
international land investments, and its impact on water equity, societal
resilience, environmental stewardship, and food security.

## Sandrine Dudoit

{{< figure src="../img/people/sandrine_dudoit.jpg"  width="200" >}}

Professor and Chair, Department of Statistics, UC Berkeley

Professor, Division of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, UC
Berkeley

Principal Investigator, Berkeley Center for Computational Biology

[Website](https://www.stat.berkeley.edu/\~sandrine)

Sandrine Dudoit is Professor and Chair of the Department of Statistics
and Professor in the Division of Biostatistics, School of Public, at the
University of California, Berkeley. Professor Dudoit\'s methodological
research interests regard high-dimensional inference and include
exploratory data analysis (EDA), visualization, loss-based estimation
with cross-validation (e.g., density estimation, classification,
regression, model selection), and multiple hypothesis testing. Much of
her methodological work is motivated by statistical inference questions
arising in biological research and, in particular, the design and
analysis of high-throughput microarray and sequencing gene expression
experiments, e.g., single-cell transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) for
discovering novel cell types and for the study of stem cell
differentiation. Her contributions include: exploratory data analysis,
normalization and expression quantitation, differential expression
analysis, class discovery, prediction, inference of cell lineages,
integration of biological annotation metadata (e.g., Gene Ontology (GO)
annotation). She is also interested in statistical computing and, in
particular, reproducible research. She is a founding core developer of
the Bioconductor Project (http://www.bioconductor.org), an open-source
and open-development software project for the analysis of biomedical and
genomic data.

Professor Dudoit is a co-author of the book *Multiple Testing Procedures
with Applications to Genomics* and a co-editor of the book
*Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Solutions Using R and
Bioconductor*. She is Associate Editor of three journals, including *The
Annals of Applied Statistics* and *IEEE/ACM Transactions on
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics*. Professor Dudoit was named
Fellow of the American Statistical Association in 2010, Elected Member
of the International Statistical Institute in 2014, and Fellow of the
Institute of Mathematical Statistics in 2021.

Professor Dudoit obtained a Bachelor\'s degree (1992) and a Master\'s
degree (1994) in Mathematics from Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada.
She first came to UC Berkeley as a graduate student and earned a PhD
degree in 1999 from the Department of Statistics. Her doctoral research,
under the supervision of Professor Terence P. Speed, concerned the
linkage analysis of complex human traits. From 1999 to 2000, she was a
postdoctoral fellow at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute,
Berkeley. Before joining the Faculty at UC Berkeley in July 2001, she
underwent two years of postdoctoral training in genomics in the
laboratory of Professor Patrick O. Brown, Department of Biochemistry,
Stanford University. Her work in the Brown Lab involved the development
and application of statistical methods and software for the analysis of
microarray gene expression data.

## Joey Gonzalez

{{< figure src="../img/people/joey_gonzalez.jpg"  width="200" >}}

Joseph is a Professor in the [EECS
department](http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu) at UC Berkeley, a
co-director and founding member of the UC Berkeley [RISE
Lab](http://rise.cs.berkeley.edu) and a member of the
Berkeley AI Research
([BAIR](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~jegonzal/bair.berkeley.edu)
Group). His [research
interests](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~jegonzal/research)
span machine learning and data systems and he has a wide range of
projects including:

-   real-time model serving
-   dynamic deep neural networks
-   accelerated deep learning for high-resolution computer vision
-   new cryptographic primitives for federated learning
-   frameworks for deep reinforcement learning and parameter tuning
-   explainable reinforcement learning
-   software platforms for autonomous vehicles
-   new approaches to cloud computing

## Maggi Kelly

Professor; Environmental Science, Policy, and Management; UC Berkeley

Director, ANR Statewide Program in Informatics and Geographic
Information Systems (IGIS)

Faculty Director, Geospatial Innovation Facility, UC Berkeley

{{< figure src="../img/people/maggi_kelly.png"  width="200" >}}

Maggi Kelly is Professor and Cooperative Extension Specialist at the
University of California, Berkeley in the Department of Environmental
Science, Policy, and Management and an expert in spatial data science.
She has dedicated her career to redefining the boundaries of
mapping-technology and its application to understanding dynamic
landscapes. She has applied her technological expertise to crucial
problems across the state, such as understanding and documenting
wildfires, tracking and predicting forest diseases, improving
agriculture and water usage, and climate change. She is faculty director
of the Geospatial Innovation Facility and Director of the ANR Statewide
Program in Informatics and Geographic Information Systems (IGIS).

## Charuleka Varadharajan

ResearchScientist, Earth and Environmental Sciences, LBNL

Research Affiliate, Berkeley Institute of Data Sciences

{{< figure src="../img/people/charu_varadharajan.png"  width="200" >}}

Charu is a scientist in the Earth and Environmental Sciences Area at
Berkeley Lab and leads its Earth AI and data program. She has dedicated
her career to environmental sustainability and climate resilience,
having experienced first-hand the challenges of water insecurity in
drought-prone regions of the world. She has cross-disciplinary expertise
in hydrology, biogeochemistry, data science and informatics with
experience using computational, field, and laboratory methods in her
research. She brings together her technical knowledge, leadership and
community-building abilities to understand and solve complex Earth
science problems. For example, she has used data-driven methods to study
how river water quality is affected by extreme events, discover how
methane is released from lakes, perform scientific assessments of the
impacts of well stimulation (hydraulic fracturing) on water resources in
California, and predict groundwater levels using machine learning for
optimal water management. She is a passionate champion and practitioner
of open data, and is leading data management efforts in signature U.S.
Department of Energy research including its ESS-DIVE data repository. .
Charu earned her PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and
conducted her postdoctoral research at Berkeley Lab. She is a research
affiliate with the Berkeley Institute of Data Sciences, a DOE Early
Career awardee, and a recipient of the Berkeley Lab Director's award for
exceptional early career scientific achievement in the area of data
science for Earth and environmental science.
